So we've got our Prisma set up,
we have our GraphQL Yoga set up,
we've got our React in Next.JS set up,
The really the only missing piece in order for React to talk
to the Yoga and Prisma servers, is this thing in the middle
which is called Apollo Client.
Now anytime you're working with data in a React application
you're generally doing one of two things,
you either store all of your data in a component via state,
and then if you want that state to be accessible
to other components, you either use regular state,
and if you want that data state to be available
to other components, you either put it in a context
or pass it down via probs, or as that starts to get
a little bit unruly, you usually reach for something
called Redox and Redox is a data store
where you can define what your actions are
and how those actions are handled
and how the data goes in and out and whatnot,
and Apollo Client will replace the need for using something
like Redox in fact Redox was used under the hood
in Apollo for version one,
now it's in version two and almost version three.
So we don't need to use Redox in here
because Apollo does all of the data manager stuff
that a Redox store will do,
as well as a whole bunch of other stuff.
So it will do the fetching of the data from the serverside,
it will do the pushing of the data to your mutations
it will do all the caching so if I request a resource
twice in the same page, or request it once
and then 10 minutes later request the same resource
it's going to pull it from the cache first.
You don't have to worry about whether you should
pull that over the network or not,
it will help us manage our local states,
so if you have data that just stores
in the browser we can do that.
And it also gives you your error in loading UI states
which is fantastic, you never have to set a flag
of is loading true or you never have to manually catch
your errors because it will do all of that for you.
So Apollo does a whole bunch of stuff for you
and it's really awesome, it's sort of the gold standard
for working with GraphQL in React world.
There is another package from Facebook
that is called Relay and I'll let you
do your own research into that.
It's a little bit more low level,
whereas Apollo Client is up and running
really, really quickly
but that's not to say that Apollo Client is less powerful.
I have yet to run into any huge show-stopper issues
with Apollo Client so, really excited about it.
First thing we want to do is open up this with data.JS.
Again I'm in my front end here,
'cause it's yellow I'm not on the back end anymore.
And I've given you a little bit of boiler plate code
we're gonna actually come back
and modify this just a little bit
but let's go through what we got here first.
First thing we need to do is import the Apollo Client
from something called apollo-boost.
What apollo-boost is is a package
that is put out by Apollo,
it's an official package that has all of the standard things
that you would want to use with
an Apollo installation in the client included.
By default Apollo Client just comes as Apollo Client,
and then if you want to add anything
to maybe deal with caching or to deal with
Ajax calls to your serverside, or to handle errors
or to do local state management
then you have to use all of what are called links
and you can sort of like extend what Apollo Client does.
However in most cases most people
will want to use all of these things
so they put out this package called Apollo Boost
and it has these things pre-configured
for you which is fantastic.
Next thing we need is withApollo
from this package called next-with-apollo
what that does is it's going to give us
a high-order component that will expose our Apollo Client,
Apollo Client is the data base that is in the client,
and it will expose that client via a prop.
ReactApollo actually comes with some tools for doing this
however because we are using next.JS
and we want serverside rendering to work,
there's a little bit of extra work that we need to do
because of how serverside rendering works.
This package does all of that for us which is great,
and then I've just imported the end point
from our config.JS which just shows us
where our actual API is being,
this is our Yoga API right here, 4444.
Then what we do is we create a function that takes
in some headers and that's going to be very important
when we get into our authentication stop
and we return a new client from it
and then we give it the url of our end-point.
In this case I'm always just giving it that local host 4444
but we could change that out when we go to production
and then what we do here is on every single request that
happens this is sort of like an express middleware here.
We are including our credentials.
Again what that's going to do is that
when you make a request
if we have any logged in cookies in the browser
then those cookies are gonna come along for the ride
and that's important when we flip over to our back end.
Finally we export this with Apollo
we give it a function to create a client
and then we're gonna actually create a client
in our app.JS so let's jump over to there.
We're gonna do all of that ourselves.
We want to import the ApolloProvider
from the react-apollo package.
And then we also want to import the withData method
that we just made from go up a level,
into the lib folder and into the withData.
Then all you need to do in order to expose a Apollo Client
to a React application is just wrap the application
in what's called an Apollo Provider.
I'm gonna go in-between container and page.
Page is like the highest level that we have.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna wrap
each and every page in that
and we'll say ApolloProivder.
Wrap that there and then the Apollo Provider needs a client
which is our Apollo Client accessible to it.
Let's say client is equal to and that is available
via this.props.apollo and why is that available to us?
Well because we're gonna go down here
to when we export it, remember I said that this with data
is gonna be a high-order component.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna export this app
and we're gonna wrap it in our withData function
and that's going to make the Apollo Client
accessible via this.props.
What I like to also do is not to type this.props
out of Apollo but we can destructure it up here.
So let's say, component, Apollo.
Then we also need to do a little bit of work
in order to expose page numbers.
When we go to different pages on our application
we are going to need to surface those page values
so anytime I go to like /item you see page two.
Or /itemsingular, id equals one, two, three.
We need to surface those values.
In previous versions of Next.js
they would automatically do this
but now we have to explicitly do that
so what we have to do is go up here
and write ourselves a static getInitialProps
which is going to pass us the component and the context
say let pageProps is equal to curly bracket
and then we'll say if the component
that we're trying to render has some props
then we are going to surface those via the page props.
So pageProps is equal to await,
Component.getInitialProps.
And you pass it the context
and what we need to do is mark this as a sync,
and finally what we'll do here is we'll say pageProps.query
is equal to ctx.query that is how we,
let's write a little comment there.
This exposes the query to the user.
Then we'll return pageProps.
Then down here what we'll do
is we'll destructure that, pageProps.
You may be thinking how did I just go
from pageProps here to here,
that's because this getInitialProps
that's a special next.JS lifecycle method.
This will run first before
the first render actually happens.
And by returning anything here you expose it via Props
down here and that's gonna be really important
because what this all does in here
where we say Component.getInitialProps
is every single page that we have it's going to crawl
the entire page for any queries or mutations
that we have inside of that page that need to be fetched.
We have a list of items and a shopping cart
and a couple other queries on the page.
All of those queries need to be fired off and resolved
before we can actually go ahead and render out the page.
By doing this right here,
it's going to crawl all of those pages for us,
fetch all that data and then return
all of that data to this.
It's a little bit confusing to me
but this isn't necessary if you're just doing
a client rendered app, it's just because of the way that
serverside rendered applications work.
Where does all of this code come from?
If you go to the next JS or the Apollo documentation
they all have examples of how to get
it working with server-side render
and there's lots of examples that look a lot like this.
So we have these page props,
we're going to go into the component down here
and we're just going to spread those
on down to the component for that specific page.
Now, if that works let's actually fire up our client,
so I'm gonna go over here, npm run dev.
And we'll go to our local host 7777,
and it seems like everything's working.
Open up here.
This seems to be working.
One thing I do recommend getting is the Apollo dev tools
for either Firefox or Chrome so just do a quick search
for Apollo dev tools and what that's going to do
is it's actually gonna give us access
to our entire store or the cache as we say it,
there's nothing in here yet
but if I were to go to this one,
and open up my Apollo cache here,
I can open that up,
you can see that I have got my cart items in here,
I've got all of the different items,
I have all the different orders that I have
and the specific user as to who I am right now.
You can see all of the different permissions and orders
and name and id and the e-mail that I have.
This is kind of like React dev tools
where it's going to allow us to peer into
what the cache actually looks like right now,
in case we're running into any caching issues.
So that is a little bit of boiler plate that we need
to get this Apollo up and running.
In the next videos we're actually gonna be writing some code
that we can fire off some queries
and start pulling data into our application
so we can template it out with React.